spec: expose tedge configs to external clients (#4241)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/operate/entity-management/rest_api.md

curl -f -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/te/v1/entities/device/child01///twin
```

## Get exposed configuration

Each entity that owns `tedge_config` settings (e.g. `tedge-agent`, or a cloud mapper such as
`tedge-mapper-c8y`) publishes any setting explicitly marked exposable as a retained `config` MQTT
message under its own service topic (see the [MQTT API reference](../../references/mqtt-api.md#configuration)).

> The agent collects these as an ordinary MQTT subscriber and serves them as a read-only view over HTTP.

Reviewer: The tone of this text is not appropriate for a user manual. This is more akin to a reference or a design doc.

```suggestion
The agent and the mappers expose part of their configuration over MQTT as  a retained `config` MQTT
messages.
The agent also gather all these configuration settings and serves them as a read-only view over HTTP.
```

Author: Rewritten in 911c34de80d4cfca023c8968c573a52642376e19

This view is read-only: `PUT`, `PATCH`, and `DELETE` on a `config` resource path are rejected.
Configuration can only be changed by its owning component, via `tedge config set` and a restart.

A configuration key that is not marked exposable and a key that does not exist at all are
indistinguishable here: both return `404 Not Found`, so the response reveals nothing about which

> non-exposed settings exist.

Reviewer: Speaking about  *keys that are not marked exposable* might confuse the users asking themselves how to expose a key.

```suggestion
The agent and the mappers don't expose all their configuration settings (some are secret values, others are meaningless when used from another box). 
A configuration key that is not exposed or does not exist at all are
indistinguishable here: both return `404 Not Found`, so the response reveals nothing about which
non-exposed settings exist.
```

Author: Re-written in 911c34de80d4cfca023c8968c573a52642376e19

curl -f -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/te/v1/entities/device/child01///twin
```

## Get exposed configuration

The agent and the mappers publish a subset of their configuration
as retained `config` MQTT messages
(see the [MQTT API reference](../../references/mqtt-api.md#configuration)).
The agent collects the `config` messages of all the services
and serves them over HTTP,
so that the configuration of each entity can be queried individually.

This view is read-only: any other method (`POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE` etc)
returns `405 Method Not Allowed`.
A setting can only be changed with `tedge config set`,
and the new value is published only once its owning service is restarted.

### Get a single configuration value

**Endpoint**

```
GET /te/v1/entities/{topic-id}/config/{key}
```

**Response status codes**

* 200: OK
* 404: Not Found (the key is not exposed, or does not exist)

:::note

> A key that is not exposed and a key that does not exist at all

Reviewer 2: From a user perspective, there is no way to know which keys are exposed. My suggestion is to mark "exposed" in `tedge config list --doc`. It can be done later in follow-up.

Author: In an offline discussion, we decided to skip this for now, as the decision on whether to expose some configs or all configs (minus the secrets) will be revisited before the release of this feature.

are indistinguishable here: both return `404 Not Found`.
So the response tells nothing about the settings that are not exposed.
:::

#### Example: Get the agent's device.id setting

```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/te/v1/entities/device/main/service/tedge-agent/config/device.id
```

```text title="Response"
my-device-01
```

### Get all exposed configuration

**Endpoint**

```
GET /te/v1/entities/{topic-id}/config
```

**Response status codes**

* 200: OK
* 404: Not Found

#### Example: Get all of a c8y mapper's exposed configuration

```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/te/v1/entities/device/main/service/tedge-mapper-c8y/config
```

```json title="Response"
{
    "url": "example.cumulocity.com",

>     "device.id": "my-device-01"

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth noting that all values are represented as string. For example, boolean becomes `"true"`, array becomes `"[]"`, with double-quotes.

Author: Good catch. That's a side-effect of using the same `readable_keys()` plumbing that's used by the `tedge config list` command that treats every value as `String`. I'll see what I can do to preserve the types.

Author: Resolved by a series of commits from bdfaa75 to 6f4763c
